The Modern Library Reading Club ([mlrc.nyc](https://mlrc.nyc)) was formed in 2015 when Brad came up with the idea to read [Modern Library's 100 Best Novels](http://www.modernlibrary.com/top-100/100-best-novels/) in length order, from shortest to longest. The idea being, no matter how diligiently we read until we died, we'd hardly make a dent in all there is to read; but we might at least broaden our sense of what's out there if we could get through as many "classics" as we could. So: quantity over (time discerning) quality.

Over the years we'd grown in membership and experimented with lots of ways to nominate and select books, expanding to contemporary award-winners as well as collections of short stories, translated foreign-language novels, historical fiction, and even graphic novels. The group's kept up a weekly meet-up, usually dividing books across 3 weeks, and each meet-up starting with everyone's "general impressions" (10-15 mins) then going into "highlights" (30-45 mins) that often sparked related (and plenty of unrelated) discussions. 

IMHO though, the reason to read has never been for reading itself, even when we thought it was. ~It's the friends we made along the way 🌈~ Lol, no, but looking back, I see what a menagerie of conditions and personalities and luck it took to keep life flowing through a book club—and probably any regularly meeting interest group. So here I'm collecting some of the "meta" and tangential knowledge I've gleaned, in appearance for the benefit of other book clubs, but in truth just because it's fun for me to reminisce and share knowledge.
