Marco watched a Marco he'd grown used to, a Marco he was just beginning to like, extinguish itself in Ally's eyes.

Marco will soon find himself in a new city. One that he'd never even heard of until last year's Summer when he made a trip {for his office}. There, during a Wednesday's afterwork drinks a colleague was joined by local friends, one of whom later turned to Marco with some insignificant but amiable chatter that compelled Marco too to turn, gradually toward this stranger. I imagine the instant their angles mirrored, the room receded into a blur and its voices became murmurs, as happens when yet unacquainted but fated friends coincide. By the end of the night, farewells were hardly heard behind the alacrity of each other's voices, one of which now invites Marco to an early Sunday dinner at a "Cate who's got a thing for dinner parties'" East R. high-rise apartment. That Sunday afternoon patches of clouds formed agreeable patches of shades over the city's sidewalks, and the humidity of the lake seemed to lift. Marco decided to walk the 40 minutes to Cate's, across the pedestrian bridge and through a neighborhood with an array of cafes and boutique stores facing the river. Stopping in a wine shop, Marco browsed thoughtfully, settling on a $33 red. But he needn't have been so thoughtful. In crowds like Cate's—here and there sprinkled across cities like lights of street lamps that don't touch—there's an abundance of welcome and goodwill that puts you at ease, so your only concern becomes that of grateful alertness, to find a chance to reciprocate. No wonder when the next next Spring, ...

when Marco returns on business and texts his {acquaintance} after a great deal of hesitation (Marco had not kept in touch as he {emphatically} promised), only to hear his phone ring within the minute and, _"Marco! How have you been? ... Good, great! And your family in Georgia? ... mhm, that's so good to hear! ..."_, and when Igor [Marco's manager] half-heartedly floats by Marco a long-term assignment with a {paltry} relocation package, Igor will be {taken by surprise} by Marco's easy decision—easy as reading an epilogue of a story that ends well.

In three years while visiting New York with Cate, Marco will run into Ally on the very street corner he now approaches. In this and that present, Marco stops. Pedestrians dip into his view from left and right. They brandish their impatience with him by their swagger. In this present, activity spurs in the realms between the folds of his brain, an astronomical task having just begun: a Great Rewriting of memories, complete with mistakes and {}, to resurface {transmuted} in the other present, bearing irregularities in Marco's universe like the outbursts of glitched words that escape us when {we recall embarrassing memories}.

But right now—now now—I'm not sure Marco felt any of that. What did he feel, I try to recall. He felt the breeze make his eyes feel like cold planets. Then he felt a little ashamed—it all seemed a little melodramatic, didn't it? So he smiled and picked up his pace across the street, looking easily left, looking easily right, as untroubled people do when they've nothing to look at at all.

_Perhaps what was said in this exchange will be one of the crucial pieces to the drama later. Perhaps Marco finds this stranger strangely easy to open up to, and they quickly find themselves sharing secrets, though vaguely. Less perhaps, maybe that stranger is me._

_Idea A7: Write more run-on, the more uncomfortable the character's psyche is. This gives you an excuse to write that way, or in other words, gives it form._

_Idea A8: Make the narrator become more and more real, either approaching the introduction of him, or in relation to time, e.g. "I was not there, then." Perhaps one chapter it catches up. Perhaps it is the chapter I commit suicide._

_Idea B1: Inspired by Calvino 192: The feeling when you blunder with a girl. But she calls on you the next day anyway. Unexpected resolution of tension. Maybe later realized as extreme Grace on her part. And like The Idiot, her explaining. "But I know you're sensitive and ..." Maybe a thread here can be: Sleeping with someone because it's not much to you, but a lot to the ego of a man._
